So let's do macro.
So there's a thing called macro pressure.
It's a real thing.
This is not a joke.
Okay, this is a PSA,
we're doing macro pressure.
What that is when you use vim, you'll
eventually get really good at using vim.
But here's the problem, that the moment
you start recording a macro, you will
forget everything you know, and it'll feel
like your fingers are filled with cement.
It's the craziest thing ever.
It's called macro pressure.
It's like stage fright, sort of.
So, let's go over here and
let's download this little example time,
alright, so here we go.
Also I do remember my first so I actually
before we do that I do want to go over
this I did put a little cue for
me to remember this.
I remember seeing my first macro
ever done, and it blew my mind.
So let me show you it,
I still remember to this day, so
I want to just do test dot js, right?
And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
go like this, we're gonna start,
we're gonna create an array.
Alright, let's just
create an opening array.
And I wanna go 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 I wanna
just manually type out the letters.
I know you can do the mappings and
all that, but
let's just pretend we couldn't do it for
a moment, and
we wanna go like this 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 all the way up to some number.
Like this would be very annoying if you
had to manually type it all out, right?
So we're gonna do a macro.
So what we're gonna do,
is I'm going to press Q.
Now Q will put you into macro mode.
Then I'm gonna type any letter I want,
a, now notice what it says down there.
Macro pressure has now started, all of a
sudden I feel like I'm gonna mess this up
because now it's recording
every one of my keystrokes.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
highlight this line with highlight line,
I'm going to yank it.
I'm going to paste it and I'm going to
press Ctrl A, Ctrl A will increment your
number if you're in T mux you have
to press it twice if you have
a T mux remap on a I'm in T mux I have
a remap on Ctrl A so I press it twice.
But in regular vim Ctrl A will
auto increment any number that is
the first one that it sees in a line.
It's a fantastic feature,
I use it all the time.
It's crazy.
So now I'll have to do is
press Q one more time.
I'm done.
Okay, we made it.
I pressed it, I did it the right way.
So now if I press add sign,
I press A, it yanked, it control A,
awesome, I can do it again and
again and again and again and again.
I can do 100 at a and it will go and
it will do it 100 times.
Hopefully there's a few
smiles out there like hey,
wait a second, that's kind of cool.
Like I can record a set of keystrokes and
replay them,
that means I can get
pretty generalized here.
So that remember when
someone earlier asked about,
multiple cursors,
this is kind of where I'm saying,
hey, maybe multiple cursors
isn't quite what you wanted.
We'll find out, because motions have a lot
more power than simply editing text,
they can do a lot more items.
Alright, that was really cool.
That was my first macro experience and
when I saw that I don't know personally
I'd just blew my mind I got so
like giddy excited about it.
Alright, so I'm just gonna quit that file.
And now, let's cut and
paste this file, send it down.
Let's go forward.
Yeah, thank you.
I said wow, too.
I thought it was awesome also,
just now that person said it too.
All right, so let's curl this file
down and let's do some macros.
This is gonna be tons of fun, all right.
Also everyone, hopefully we'll get macro
pressure, and everybody will screw it up.
It'll be fantastic.
All right, so what do we wanna do?
Yes, also,
I did write this code with a macro.
I wrote all this code with the macro and
just made it play itself.
So what do we wanna do?
All right, what I wanna do is
I want to take this code and
I wanna convert it into
a switch statement.
Right, well.
Unfortunately, there is just like
a lot of things to do here, right?
We could use a find and replace, right?
I could do a star and kind of figure
that out, match everything say
up to the first double quotes, group it,
match it up to the second double quote.
Match everything afterwards,
replace it with a k statement,
get that report in double quotes,
put the colon on there, you got it right.
So we could do that with a case statement,
but let's do it with the macro instead.
Actually here I'll just show you
really quickly how to deal with with
finding replace.
Sometimes it's just easier.
So I'll just do a dot star
match the whole line.
I'm going to go all the way up to a quote.
Remember regex is a greedy or
the opposite agree lazy,
I'm not really sure
what the right word is.
They keep matching until
they can't match any longer.
So they're definitely not greedy.
But they don't feel very lazy either.
They just keep going.
I'm not sure what the right term is.
I know there's a term and I forgotten it.
Do that one I curvy that I
always tell you about and
there we go create a match group,
then I'm gonna do another quote, awesome.
And then I'm gonna just match the rest
of the line, and then I'm gonna replace
it with case that there we go,
by doing this, boom, we got them all.
Awesome, there now alternative case
statements when they were just if
statements, but for
the sake of this, let's not do that.
Let's use macros.
It's kind of like,
let's see, no, what is it?
This is kind of a trivial case, but
it's just more of an exercise
that we can all do together.
All right, so now we need to do this.
What are we gonna do?
What's the first letter you press,
Q, we need to start the macro.
We're going to start on
the line we want to replace Q.
Alright, what letter do we want to use?
I just always use a replace my macro,
there we go.
We're recording at a Here we go.
All right, we're gonna do this.
The pressures on, so
I'm gonna teach you a very cool keystroke,
which is how do we go to
the beginning of the line?
Well, it's actually pretty hard to
go to the beginning of the line,
because we can't just use W.
Notice that if we're on the else
if there's an extra W, so
we need something that just
goes to the beginning.
So I'm gonna do, underscore, right?
Underscore will go to the first non
whitespace character of the line.
Awesome, now we're gonna do a couple other
commands that we haven't learned yet.
It's just gonna be exciting, okay,
you're gonna type the word T.
Now T is a very special command,
but we're gonna get there.
So we're gonna do this, D for
delete, T, and then, quotes.
It's gonna delete up until the quotes.
Yay, now we're gonna use F.
F quotes,
it's gonna to hop to the next one,
we're gonna go over one, and
we're gonna use D dollar, awesome.
So we've just done all of that.
We have now erased everything around it.
I'm gonna use SHIFT+A to go
into insert mode at the end,
put in the colon, and then I'm gonna
to leave Insert mode then we use
shift I to go to the first none white
space character and type in case.
Man, we're so close.
We haven't messed it up yet, I thought
I was gonna mess it up, we haven't.
This is fantastic.
I'm gonna press Ctrl+C
to leave insert mode and
we're gonna go jj to j's down Now in
the press Q, now we've stopped our macro.
So if I've done this correct,
it should go to the beginning of the line,
delete up until the double quotes,
jump to the next parenthese or
the next quotes,
then delete everything beyond that.
Do the colon insertion and then the case
insertion and then go two down.
So at a at a, I could do 10 at a.
Yeah, look at that, Bingo.
There we go.
We've done it.
We've just used a macro to replay and
be able to do this.
This is that I actually genuinely thought
I was gonna screw that up in front of
everyone because it's just so
easy to screw that one up.
But we did it we were able to create
a macro that can run on each line and
go to the next result for us.
Now, imagine that sense it's a macro
that just does your actions.
You could use find next, for
where you need to jump to next.
Remember, it's just a macro is
replaying your keystrokes, alright?
Remember the register.
Do you remember the register
that we kept pulling up?
For now, for fun,
let's just type in colon register.
In here do you see anything
that's interesting?
Hopefully, you're looking around and
you're feeling a little astute.
You'll notice that in register A,
what's in register A?
Wait a second, I mean, this looks
like exactly what I just typed, hmm.
On if there's something
we could do with that.
We can